[Music]
so we just got done with possibly one of
the biggest apple WWDC Keynotes of all
time maybe just because of the state of
the world and what everyone expects from
tech companies in 2024 which is AI at
the front of what you do interestingly
with apple this time Apple had AI at the
back half of what they did literally the
entire first half of the keynote they
didn't say AI once zero times then the
second hour they just went all right
yeah we we actually do have a lot of AI
stuff to share with you and they just
spit it all out and of course they did
manage to Brand it because of course
they did AI for them is now Apple
intelligence but look I watched and live
tweeted the entire 2hour long keynote so
you don't have to and I've gathered all
my thoughts and all the most important
announcements so this is everything you
need to know that's new and some of my
takes on it so I'm going to go in the
same order that Apple went I'm going to
start with vision OS and we're already
on somehow Vision OS 2.0 less than half
a year after the Vision Pro first got
announced and there are some solid new
features but I don't know if I would
call this 2.0 worthy it feels more like
a 1.2 update but okay whatever we'll go
with it so there's a new wrist turn
gesture to quickly see the time and your
battery percentage and then you can jump
right from there into the control center
instead of having to like look way up at
the ceiling like you had to before every
time kind of reminds me of the Oculus
Quest that is easy that's an upgrade
there's a bunch of immersive media
features like they let you go through
your old photos and use Advanced machine
learning to turn them into spatial
photos which is really interesting if it
works and there are also new tools to
help people create spatial videos and
immersive videos on cameras other than
the iPhone but then of course you can
only view them on a Vision Pro so who
knows how valuable this will actually
turn out to be but then this year Mac
mirroring will get way more resolution
thanks to it now doing the fiated
rendering on the Mac so basically it
frees up a ton of resources and it lets
you do up to double the resolution so
you could do a gigantic ultrawide if you
want it to be that is way more room for
Windows and activities love that and
that's pretty much it again it's not the
biggest 2.0 update we've ever seen but
it does feel like there's some nice
updates in there including some new
environments and the ability to
rearrange your home screen believe it or
not you couldn't do that before now you
can but speaking of rearranging your
home screen iOS just got one of the
biggest or at least most interesting
updates in a long time and I'm just
going to if you're an Android User I'd
say for the next like 2 minutes 3
minutes just go ahead and unplug your
keyboard for a second and just relax cuz
yes we've had these features for a long
time but now it's the iPhone's time to
shine all right so officially you will
finally be able to put icons wherever
you want on the iOS 18 home screen grid
and it was hilarious that this got a
whole Applause moment from the audience
during the keynote as if they just inv
vented a new feature but fine you've
been waiting for a long time for this
have your fun but they didn't stop there
they added a whole bunch of other
customization features to the iPhone
home screen 2 and it started to get a
little more interesting see there's this
new theme engine now that lets you go in
and change the color of every icon and
widget on your home screen to the same
color so you can really you can match
your wallpaper with your icons to frame
it nicely and have matching colors
everywhere it's a simple thing and we've
been doing it on Android with launchers
for years but the thing about these is
before this moment basically every
iPhone home screen look the same we've
been saying that they've just given you
the ability to go crazy and kind of ruin
your home screen if you want to and
people seem to absolutely want to I have
seen some rough home screens people are
making on Twitter a lot of them just
look terrible and I think the main thing
I noticed is it seems like there are
apps that support this whole
colored thing well and then there are
apps that don't that just looks like it
tints the entire it just literally
applies a color cast to the entire icon
on your home screen which causes all
kinds of legibility problems doesn't
look good there are widgets that look
horrible that it's just unreadable so
yeah you can make some some pretty
looking home screens if you want but you
can also make some really ugly looking
home screens and I was trying to decide
if I like this more or less than what
Google did on the pixels with material U
I think technically technically it's
better because it works on all of the
icons I don't know how many setups I've
tried where I wanted to the monochrome
icons but there are just a few of my
apps that aren't supported so they end
up looking kind of like they stick out
like a sore thumb so at least apple is
letting you change all of the icons at
once but anyway Apple's also redesigned
the control center to be fully
customizable across multiple pages so
again there's a lot more going on here
and there are many more customizable
shortcuts in more places including
finally replacing the flashlight and
camera on the home screen without
jailbreaking finally and the list keeps
going stop me if you've heard these
before but there are you can do hidden
apps now inside your app drawer so you
can lock apps into a hidden folder that
makes it easier than ever to hide Tinder
from your wife there's also scheduled
text messages an iMessage great finally
they're having some fun over there
there's also text formatting there's
messages via satellite RCS support was
very casually but briefly mentioned uh
the photos app is redesigned there's
also a game mode that now minimizes
background activity and minimizes
Bluetooth latency for peripherals great
and a new automatic categorization in
the new mail app so you can tell there's
there's been a whole bunch of stuff I
will definitely be doing a larger more
Focus just iOS 18 video so you can see
everything that's new there's plenty of
little stuff that didn't make it into
the keynote so I'll do a whole Deep dive
just for that make sure you subscribe to
be among the first to see that I believe
we are catching up to Apple and
subscribers be kind of nice if we pass
them that'd be sick so then airpods got
minor updates like voice isolation
during phone calls spatial audio during
games and the ability to respond to a
prompt just by nodding or shaking your
head taken right from the Sony
headphones I kind of like it though
controlling it without using your voice
is nice then Apple TV gets this new
feature where you swipe down on the
remote at any point during a show and it
just shows you all the actors and
character names of the people on the
screen and any song that's playing in
that moment in real time and there's
also a feature that boosts people's
voices so you can always hear them over
the music and then watch OS they got
this little training mode that sort of
balances the trends in your training
over time and evaluates how hard a
workout was versus how hard it could
have been and then iPad OS so this was
supposed to be Apple's big chance to
really convince us that the iPad is it's
something special that's got a little
something to it that would make us
convinced that we'd want to get the
newest one the M4 one that just came out
over
just your phone or over a Mac and I'll
say it did get one incredible
feature but it didn't really do much
more than that so the iPad it you know
gets all the stuff I talked about with
the iPhone right full home screen
customization customizable control
center the new photos app Etc it's all
great there's also a feature in share
playay that lets you go in and actually
remotely control someone's iPad when
they allow it which seems like a small
thing but I promise you that is massive
for family tech support you know who you
are but the one massive actually
impressive new feature on the iPad in
iPad OS 18 and you think I'm joking but
I'm dead serious when I say this it's
the calculator app it's the new
calculator I promise you I was so ready
to dunk on this like I had had a tweet
like drafted up as they were talking
about it we finally brought the
calculator the iPad and there were
screenshots of it and it looked just
like the iPhone app and I was like
really this is this is what you were so
hyped about had that clip CED up ready
of Craig federi being like yes we had to
do something super special to finally
bring their calculator to the iPad but
then then they pulled the apple pencil
off the side and they pulled up what's
called math notes and it was pretty sick
so now on the iPad you can actually
write down equations in handwriting and
it will understand what you wrote and
it'll answer the question in your
handwriting and then if you adjust the
equation or add new information or
something it automatically updates the
answer which was so sick I don't know
why I'm so impressed with this but it
was really cool to play with and look at
so if that wasn't impressive enough it
also supports variables so you can have
variables written all over the page so
look at this it has G and X and A and H
and then it's a labeled y as the height
here so you can ask for an equation
using these variables and it can give
you an answer and if you want you can do
a y equals equation and it'll give you a
graph with real time adjustment of any
of the variables in your equation I mean
I I wish I was in sixth grade again so
this could be my full-time calculator
this is sick now at this point in the
keynote they haven't even actually said
the word like AI a single time yet I
think this is pretty clearly AI this is
like handwriting recognition this is
like semantic understanding of all the
things happening on the page it's good
AI well played Craig you did it okay but
this is before the actual AI section but
also this wasn't mentioned on stage but
this is also coming to the iPhone's
calculator app as well but then Mac OS
Mac OS has its newest version It's
called Sequoia and it does also get a
nice little grab bag of new features
there's uh automatic window snapping now
finally built-in you don't need a third
party app to do it anymore sherlocked uh
there's built-in backgrounds for any app
that uses the webcam feed there's also a
new password app that basically just
takes what was buried in the settings
before and just makes it its own
Standalone app so it's actually on Mac
iPad and iPhone but probably the biggest
thing is iPhone mirroring so this is
another continuity feature that
basically just lets you wirelessly
always see your iPhone on your Mac it
merges your notifications and audio with
your Macs and lets you drag and drop
things back and forth between your phone
that's sitting next to you and your Mac
I kind of wonder if this hits your phone
battery harder than normal they didn't
really say Obviously so I'm going to
have to test this but I imagine if
you're just sitting on a wireless
charger then it won't matter but I'll be
checking that out but then we arrived
they did all the sections with all the
other operating systems and now we got
to the part where Apple's going to talk
about AI stuff kind of now I don't know
if you remember this but a couple months
ago not that long ago I did an entire
video on all of these phrases that it
seems like apple refused to say on stage
they just would not say them and AI is
one of them they just didn't say it
they'd say anything else neuron Nets
machine learning all sorts of other
things like that
but the times are the times people want
to hear Apple talk about AI so they
finally did and they also like I said
they they rebranded it just for
themselves just to just comedere the AI
name and so now it's called Apple
intelligence in apple land so here's
basically what you need to know about
Apple intelligence right so Apple has
already had AI features on their devices
before they've had the neural engine
inside of their chips and they've done
things like you know smartly cutting
subjects out of photos they've done
things like autocomplete on the keyboard
that's already existed but this new
Apple intelligence is basically a bucket
of these new generative models and what
they do on your devices so there's these
new diffusion models generative models
and large language models that are all
built by Apple that bring new
functionality to the supported devices
and actually I'll just get that out the
ra right off the bat these are only
supported on the highest end versions of
currently available Apple silicon so
that just means iPhone 15 Pro and any
iPad with M1 or later and any Mac with
M1 or later so what does that look like
well basically starting with these new
os's there's a small Suite of tools
that's kind of sprinkled across
everything it's not like there's one
apple intelligence app or something like
that they're just kind of sprinkled
throughout so here's an example writing
tools you know we all know how powerful
these large language models can be so
anytime you're writing in you know Pages
or keynote or basically anywhere where
there's a cursor you can use the writing
tools to summarize or rewrite something
that you've already written it can
change the writing style or just
proofread just basic useful stuff here's
another one remember the Magic Eraser
Tool in Google photos and these Android
phones that use it Apple's finally doing
that too built into their own photos app
is a cleanup tool and it's basically the
same idea this will identify background
items it'll let you Circle items you
don't like in your photos and just get
rid of them fill in the background with
gener to fill super quick and there's
also gen emojis generative emojis and
this may feel really old cuz I would
never use this but apparently there's a
whole group of people who go through
searching for emojis and then they find
that there's one that doesn't exist and
they're like dang I wish I could just
make an emoji for this moment right now
and for those people yeah now now you
can you can generate a new Emoji you can
literally type it fit in like a prompt
and the diffusion model will create that
new emoji from scratch in the style of
all the other emojis and they had an
entire thing called the image playground
that's built into a bunch of Apple's
apps but also has its own separate app
that lets you create these nice little
square images with prompts in three
different styles sketch illustration and
animation and yes there are also Siri
improvements that's using the large
language models to generally understand
context better and just generally be
better and more natural at being an
assistant that isn't garbage and later
in the year it will also be able to pull
info from inside of apps and take
actions inside of apps for you too I
remember when this was like a huge Bixby
feature on Samsung phones so that's cool
to see plus there's also this like big
pretty new full screen animation when
you're triggering Siri to tie it all
together its vo is apparently slightly
updated and you can now also type to
Siri instead of talking to it out loud
every time which is long overdue but
also nice there's Notes app summaries
there's phone call summaries just all
kinds of you know features sprinkled
around like I said definitely I want to
I think I'll end up making a video just
summarizing or testing or reviewing all
of the Apple intelligence stuff cuz it's
kind of all over the place but now you
know what it is but one question that's
been floating around the internet is
what stuff is happening on device versus
things that have to go to the cloud and
this is also come up a lot because you
might have also heard about Apple
partnering specifically with open AI to
integrate chat GPT 40 into this apple
intelligence stuff so it's a big
question everyone's wondering so I got
the official answers from Apple and the
answer is basically almost everything
happens on device intentionally and
those are from Apple built models so
that should be the fastest stuff that
happens but in the chance that there are
things that are too complex or just
outside of the area of expertise of
Apple's models then it can basically go
one of two ways one is it will go to a
larger server-based model that's on
servers that Apple has built with apple
silicon using what they call Private
Cloud compute so basically the info is
never stored or sent to Apple it's still
going to have the downsides of having to
go off of the device up to the cloud it
might take a bit longer if you're in an
area with terrible internet might not
work at all but in the chance that this
is like a big complex thing that could
benefit from those models that's what
it'll try to do but the other is when
you specifically ask it for something
that chat GPT would be good at and if
that happens then it will specifically
ask you hey is it cool if I ask chat GPT
for an answer to this question and then
you can give it a yes or no on the spot
so anytime it wants to do this whether
it's to upload a photo that you're
asking something about or just a complex
prompt in general then this little
dialogue box pops up and you have to say
yes every time and then you can tap into
everything that open AI model is capable
of or generate even more realistic or
varied random different styles of images
that Apple's diffusion models would
never make this is all free without an
account um at no point is open aai
allowed to ever store any of these
requests and Apple has also said that
they will obscure your IP address so you
can't even open AI can't even connect
multiple requests together to form a
profile of you there's just a lot of
thought that's gone into ideally making
this as secure and private of a version
of going to the cloud for AI features as
they possibly can so yeah it's really
interesting a lot of interesting stuff
going on here I think my overall take
with a lot of this WWDC announcements
and with the the Apple intelligence
stuff is that first of all is that like
the Humane pin and the rabbit R1 they
were so doomed from the start like
there's no even if they were good up to
this point there's just no way they
could be as good as
this stuff on your phone with all the
personalization all the info that they
already know about you so I guess that's
confirmed but also it's it just kind of
it does feel like we've entered a new
age with apple I think the AI stuff is
so important that it very much is what
we're most interested in and it
overshadows like honestly what what
could possibly be your favorite non- aai
feature from the past couple things
moving home screen apps and icons
everywhere like that might be the
biggest thing but it's up to this point
now all about what this intelligent
stuff can actually do for you and what
it can bring you so that's what I'm
really excited about I'll be working on
some videos very soon about a lot of
this stuff so definitely like I said get
subscribed if you haven't already but
this has been your overview your what
you need to know thanks for watching
catch you guys in the next one peace